Protect data stored and shared in public cloud storage.
Dell Data Protection | Cloud Edition
Today employees, vendors and partners routinely move,
share and store files in cloud storage services like Box,
Dropbox, Google Drive and Microsoft OneDrive. The sheer
ease and convenience with which people can collaborate
enhances productivity, allowing them to work the way they
want using the devices they want.
Yet, as convenient as they are, public cloud storage services
have also introduced a huge data security gap. As soon
as users save files in a public cloud, IT immediately—and
irretrievably—loses control over data security. From that
point forward, users can share that data with whomever
they want, whenever they want. They can continue to share
information after they leave the company, or forget to
stop sharing with a former partner, or their account can be
hacked. In these all too common scenarios, data security
suddenly relies on the tenuous hope that data will remain
protected.
Dell Data Protection | Cloud Edition helps put IT back in
control of data security, protecting data as it moves into
and out of public clouds, with a transparent encryption
and decryption process that lets people use cloud storage
as they always have, without disruption. Cloud Edition is
also reinforced by Dell Data Protection | Mobile Edition to
secure data even when it is accessed on a smartphone or
tablet.
The solutions are fully integrated with Dell Data Protection
| Enterprise Edition, a comprehensive security platform that
protects data across all endpoints, from personally and
company owned computers, removable media devices,
smartphones and tablets, to public and private clouds.
Comprehensive protection, simple
management
Cloud Edition gives IT granular control over which users
can view data, including shared files, as well as which
endpoints users can employ to access the data, and how
they can view the data. It also enables you to immediately
revoke access, remotely enforce policies or remotely wipe
stored content, monitor and audit as needed.
Cloud Edition enables IT administrators to:
• Control File Sharing - Create white lists of email
addresses that users are allowed to use for file sharing
• Monitor Usage - Monitor all known IP addresses
for cloud storage services and match them with the
application process. Monitoring operates independently
of a browser, and captures all traffic no matter what
cloud storage application is in use
• Protect - Control data through transparent client-side
encryption, encrypt traffic captured as it moves into the
cloud, and decrypt traffic captured as it moves out of
the cloud
• Centrally Manage - Centrally manage encryption,
encryption keys, access recovery and remote wipe of
content, policies and forensics
• Audit Events and Create Reports - Audit and report on
file activity, files synced, files accessed by whom, where
and when, and compile compliance reports
• Support Mobile Devices - Access encrypted data in the
cloud from iOS and Android platforms
• Enforce Policies - Enforce policies for access to cloud
services, public folders, applications, key expirations and
polling periods using the Cloud Edition client
Enhanced end user productivity
Cloud Edition provides transparent encryption as files 
move into the cloud, and transparent decryption as files
move out of the cloud. Processes for file sharing, access
and storage are also transparent to end-users, enabling
workers to use cloud storage exactly as they always have.
When combined with Mobile Edition, the solutions help
keep data protected when it is accessed on Android
and iOS smartphones and tablets, both personally and
company owned. Together, they enable end users to
work when, where, and how they want while IT remains in
control of data and compliance.
Efficient compliance
Currently, data stored in cloud storage services is vulnerable
to account hacking, user control after termination, SSL
weaknesses, or is left to the safeguards of the provider, since
the provider is performing the actual encryption. Cloud
Edition provides an additional encryption key, stored on your
network and owned by you, so data is guarded even from
the storage provider itself. This added layer of protection
between your data and the cloud service provider helps
you stay in compliance with data privacy regulations like
HIPAA, HITECH, PCI, and others. It also enables you to review
and analyze, to verify policy enforcement, and to make
adjustments as demands dictate.
Because Cloud Edition is centrally managed through a
single console, security teams gain increased visibility into
access, usage and policy enforcement, greatly reducing the
compliance workload.
Dell Data Protection | Enterprise Edition
Cloud Edition is part of the integrated Dell Data Protection
| Enterprise Edition platform, which secures data across all
physical and virtual endpoints, including:
• Desktops and laptops
• Smartphones and tablets
• Removable media
• Public and private clouds
• Self-encrypting drives
• BitLocker
Simple to install and easy to maintain, Enterprise Edition
helps protect data wherever it goes.
Technical Specifications
DDP | Cloud Edition is available for mixed vendor environments
that meet the below specifications.
Supported cloud services:
• Box
• Dropbox, & Dropbox for Business
• Google Drive
• Microsoft OneDrive & OneDrive for Business
Supported Client Platforms:
• Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10
• Mac OS X 10.8, 10.9, 10.10
• iOS 6.1.6+
• Android 4.0+
Supported Encryption Algorithm:
• AE 256
